So the factory pattern is a pattern
that uses a special function.
And this function is called
the factory function.
And we can use this function which
in JavaScript is pretty easy.
It's just like an arrow function to
create many of the same objects.
We know all the properties
that is going to have and
then based on what we pass to it,
maybe we add some more properties, maybe
we I change them a little bit, and so on.
So like here we're creating
two users like John and Sarah.
Now, we only pass the first name and
last name.
But the object that we create also
contains the ID, created ads, and
the full name based on
the properties that we passed.
Yeah, like I said, it's pretty simple in
JavaScript to create a factory function.
This pattern is really more for languages
that don't really have built in objects.
So it's more difficult to create
many objects of the same type, but
luckily in JavaScript,
we can just use an arrow function or
a regular function that returns an object.
Okay, so the trade offs for the factory
pattern is that we don't have to recreate
the same object or
type the same object out every time.
We will also see this in
the exercise later on.
So we can just easily create many of
the same objects with just a one liner.
We just have to say create user,
create your user,
create user instead of having
that user object every time.
But yeah, like I said, in JavaScript,
it's not really a pattern.
I see there's an overflow here.
Now, we will go into the prototype
pattern a bit later,
which actually shows that this pattern
is not very memory efficient, maybe you
should try to avoid it if you're actually
creating a really large amount of objects.
But we will cover that in
the prototype pattern.
So yeah,
just to recap all it does is we just
have a function that returns an object,
that's the vector pattern, and that
function is called a factory function.
So when we look at the exercise here,
you see that we have many books.
We have Harry Potter,
a Great Gatsby and all this stuff.
And in index, I guess, yeah,
we're logging all of those books.
But in this case, so we create it,
explicitly created all of these objects.
So the exercise here is to create
a factory function instead that
returns a book, instead of having
to write those books like this.